Factions:

  Cultists:
    Population: 200 - 600
    Worshippers of the fungus and aliens.  They saw the first Cataclysm as the
      coming of their savior, and seek to integrate themselves into the new
      biosphere.
    Their goal is the precipitation of the Second Coming: a second Cataclysm
      which will truly and irrevocably change the world into an alien ecology.
    Acceptance is based on alien infection; those without an infection will be
      captured or killed.  Those with an infection but unknown will be welcomed,
      and those with an infection but belonging to a hostile faction will be
      captured and enticed to join.
    Rank is based upon integration with alien biology, powers, etc.  Its also
      affected by shadowy politics; assassinations are common.
    Cultists offer the player improved alien powers, decreased alien drawbacks,
      and a small number of agents, who are suited for special missions.
    Missions include spreading corruption, destruction of existing
      infrastructure, assassinations, direct attacks on other factions, capture
      of "holy sites"

  Military:
    Population: 600 - 1000
    Ex-soldiers, officers, and government officials, along with those who miss
      the structure of society.  The seek to re-establish government and gain
      power.
    Their immediate goal is complete control of the island, including the Lab.
      The do not want to destroy its power, but to harness it.  They see the
      island as a crucial stepping stone to wider control.
    Acceptance is offered immediate to unknown individuals after they are
      captured and interrogated.  Members of enemy factions are almost always
      killed on sight.
    Rank is based upon military-style promotion and succession.  Politicking is
      minor and mainly out in the open.  Service is valued above all.
    The Military offers the player advanced weaponry and other supplies,
      access to maps and secure areas, and command of lower-ranked members,
      suitable for direct assaults.
    Missions include foraging, capture of strategically important areas,
      "cleansing" of alien life from an area, control of infrastructue,
      destruction of infrastructure (e.g. roads) in enemy areas, direct assault
      on enemy encampments

  Naturalists:
    Population: 2000 - 2500
    Anarchists, activists, and begrudging libertarians.  The Naturalists seek to
      return the Earth to its natural (alien-free) state, without imposing a
      strong government.  They live in a semi-Communist state, with shared
      property, though not all members adhere to this rule.
    Their goal is the destruction of the lab and eradication of all alien
      life.  Their secondary goal is the pacification of other factions - or
      destruction where this is not possible.
    Acceptance is given freely, though there is a great deal of suspicion at
      first which is overcome by performing missions.  Members of enemy factions
      are welcomed, though the suspicion is even greater; they'll generally be
      stripped of belongings and forced to farm.
    Rank is based upon pure democracy.  There are no offical positions of
      leadership, and all issues are voted upon.  Still, some individuals take
      a natural position of influence.  Corruption is rampant - votes are
      frequently bought with hoarded resources.
    Naturalists offer the player access to a wide variety of resources, though
      the player may not get a choice as to what is available.  Food, clean
      water, clothing, and low-grade weapons and ammunition are common, with
      rarer items infrequently seen (and only if the player demonstrates a need
      for them, e.g. they need a certain bionic for a certain mission).  Large
      numbers of people with various skills (none very high) are available.
    Missions include exploration, foraging, securing areas, diplomacy with other
      factions, 

  Scientists:
    Population: 400 - 800
    Scientific-minded individuals who see the alien infestation as an
      oppurtunity for research.  The are reclusive, and only engage with other
      factions when they know it's to their advantage.  They engage in a lot of
      high-tech surveillance; use of eyebots and hacking.
    Their goal is to gain control of the Lab and to upgrade its capabilities.
      They will use this to assume a position of power.
    Acceptance is generally given freely, though gaining trust is slow.
      Scientists are fairly confident in their knowledge of others due to their
      spying, and members of enemy factions are shunned or killed.
    Rank is based upon seniority and prestige.  Challenges to authority are
      frequent, but violent clashses are rare; infrequently, an assassination by
      poison or similar may occur.
    Scientists offer the player access to high-tech weaponry and equipment, and
      occasionally bionic powers.  They also offer advance crafting supplies and
      a large library of books.
    Missions include collection of important equipment / components, capture of
      scientifically-important areas, and swift brutal assaults or hacking
      maneuvers on enemies.


The Island:
  Areas:
    The Lab
      Extremely dangerous, *requires* key cards to enter
      End-game.  Very good loot
    Faction camps (x4+)
    Deserted cities & towns (2-5)
      Zombie infested
      Decent & varied loot, few bonanzas.
    Forests
      Interspersed wildlife, some food and water
    
